So we have seen how to compute
degree histograms of a graph.
While degree histograms are useful
to characterize a graph,
it is usually a means to an end.
It's a known practice in statistics to
compute a mathematical expression for
a statistical distribution
Using histograms.
For graphs, we often look for a function
to describe the degree distribution.
But this is expressed as
a distribution of the probability
that a random vertex will
have exactly k neighbors.
Now, this problem has been
investigated by many.
One popular, well known model,
is a Power Law.
A graph follows a Power Law if,
the best probability is given by k,
erased to a negative
exponent called alpha.
The value of alpha, for many practical
networks, is between two and three.
More recently,
people have suggested other distributions
that look like the power law graph.
One of them is a log-normal graph.
Here, the logarithm of k has
a Gaussian distribution.
So this log-normal distribution
seems to have the better fit to
natural graphs that are observed.
So, why are power law graphs important?
Interestingly, many very,
very different real life graphs in
the world seem to follow the power law.
If a graph does follow the power law, it
would have one large connected component
with a very high proportion of notes
connected to it In a power law graph,
most nodes have a low degree and
some nodes will be disconnected.
The low degree nodes belong to
a very dense sub graphs and
those sub graphs are connected
to each other through hubs.
In the center of the graph
has a high density,
power law graphs can be
difficult to compute with.
For example, the shortest path
algorithm operating in the dense part
will possibly be very inefficient, not
because of the size of the network, but
because there are too many paths to
explore inside the denser pieces.
The more interesting reason why
people study power-law graphs
is because power-law graphs
are supposed to be robust.
So in nature, all biological networks
show power-law graphs because
It gives you a high rate of redundancy
against failure and attacks.